<!---
title: The 2020 Simulator
date: Tuesday, 24 Nov 2020 10:30:00 MST
published: true
mediumUrl: https://link.medium.com/p00EmtqJGbb
folder: Writing/2020
description: Let’s say you could load 2020 into a simulation that you could replay on your computer over and over. I know that sounds like torture but stick with me.
categories: 
thumbnail: 
layout: 
--->

# The 2020 Simulator
## A How-To Guide for Editing the Simulation

_Note: The following letter is a sample of my weekly email to friends. It’s free to [sign up and new subscribers get Art of the Living Dead][1] for free just for subscribing._

Dear *|IF:FNAME|**|FNAME|*,*|ELSE:|*friend,*|END:IF|*

Let’s say you could load 2020 into a simulation that you could replay on your computer over and over. I know that sounds like torture but stick with me... 
  
Once the 2020 simulator is on your computer, you could experiment with editing. Digitally you could experiment with violence, dropping bombs on Wuhan and assassinating world leaders. For fun you could inflict calamities on your co-workers and political rivals just to watch them suffer. Perhaps you would feel guilty for inflicting pain on your enemies. Perhaps you wouldn’t.

Unlike video editing software, editing the 2020 simulation would be done by changing people’s thoughts. You’d do this by typing ideas into their minds. It would be a bit tedious because you could only enter one person’s mind at a time. But if your implanted ideas are potent enough, the altered beings would spread the idea themselves until the entire simulation bends to your will. As you perfect your god powers you would learn which ideas spread and which thoughts dissolve without a trace.

Let’s say you spend 8 hours a day watching this simulation, tweaking variables, and trying to optimize for utopia. How long would it take you to perfect the simulation?

Are you already ahead of me? This ideas sounds like science fiction but we are already living it. We hold this simulation in our hands every day, we’re glued to our devices watching doom play out and wishing things would have played out differently. And instead of participating in the real world, making tiny improvements that actually matter, we invest ourselves in a miniature view of the simulation, fooled into believing we are stuck with it.

Our phones allow us to select from competing realities, each flavor begs us to believe they are permanent. We essentially vote for reality with our attention. And unlike _literal voting_ this decision actually counts because your view of the world changes to fit the movie you see playing on that black mirror. We either choose to be the change we want to see or we choose to dwell on the misery that seems out of our control. Very few people can see the simulation, fewer still realize they can edit it. 

We edit the simulation by changing our vote, altering the world in our mind first. You have to [imagine utopia before you can steer your actions in that direction][2]. Once the simulation switches channels you will realize your world-building powers as entire universes are erased, dystopia is obliterated, and the enemies disappear from your reality. That’s when you start creating something new.

All this happens in the only simulation that really matters, inside the small sphere between our years. From there it ripples out in the form of the ideas you share, the decisions you make, the tiny actions you take. And these changes matter. Sure it’s tedious, you have to insert new ideas into people’s brains one human at a time. Some ideas dissolve, but a few of them will stick. This is how we abandon the simulation and create change. 

I’ll write again next week. _Stay creative._

Your friend,
Adrian

P.S. If you liked this letter, [just tell me what your email address is][3] and I will send something like this in your inbox every week.

[1]:	https://mailchi.mp/0584d8c46822/letter-zero
[2]:	https://ade3.medium.com/the-difference-between-dystopia-and-the-golden-age-is-1-6958c0642d1f
[3]:	https://mailchi.mp/0584d8c46822/letter-zero